[LOGO WHOOSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> In 1905, physics genius
Nikola Tesla submitted his US
patent 787,412, which was
titled "The Art of Transmitting
Electrical Energy Through
the Natural Medium."
It included designs for a
series of worldwide generators.
Tesla realized
that the ionosphere
was sparkling with electrical
energy which could easily
be tapped.
Planet Earth,
according to Tesla,
was a gigantic
electrical generator,
spinning around
two magnetic poles
from which limitless energy
can be harnessed using
the right medium or shape.
His device was later
referred to as Tesla's
electromagnetic pyramid
based on his design looking
like a triangle shape.
>> Tesla tapping into the
actual shape of the pyramid,
I believe, was something that
just came round about through
his investigation into the
location of the pyramids
because what appears to have
happened is that he realized
that it wasn't the actual
shape of the pyramid so much,
although pyramids exhibit
fractal energy much more
efficiently than other
types of designs.
But what he
discovered was it was
the location of the pyramids
that created the power.
And when he built his facility
here in Colorado Springs
and then on the East
Coast, he did so
according to the laws of
where the pyramids of Giza
were constructed.
And it had to do with
the elliptical orbit
of the Earth and those
sites' relationship
to the actual
equator, that there
was a natural
construction somehow
taking place between
those very specific sites
and the overall energy
field of the Earth.
And because of that, he
believed he could transmit power
wirelessly.
>> Tesla's discovery and
device disappeared after his
mysterious death in 1943.
But what he was
trying to tap into
might have just
scratched the surface
of understanding the power of
something much more ancient.
>> According to Nikola Tesla,
3-6-9 is a key to a universe.
Tesla became so
obsessed with this 3-6-9
that he would drive
around a building
three times before
going inside of it.
>> He cleaned his
place with 18 napkins,
lived in hotel rooms only
with a number divisible by 3.
He made calculations
about things
in their immediate
environment just
to make sure the result
was conceivable by three.
And he'd base his
choices on the results.
He did everything
in sets of three.
What is Nikola Tesla trying
to make us understand?
We must understand that we
did not create mathematics.
We discovered them.
It is the universal
language and law.
No matter where in the
universe you are, 1 plus 2
will always equal 3.
Everything in the
universe obeys this law.
These forms are in nature.
But the ancients emulated
these forms in construction.
>> If Nikola Tesla's obsession
was with these numbers,
and his goal was to define his
location and time in space,
could it be possible that
ancient humans created
monuments like the Great
Pyramids to remind us of these
truths?
>> In Sumerian tradition
and in the surviving texts,
there is a very strong and
intriguing reference to what
are called the seven
antediluvian sages,
the seven sages who
came before the flood.
And their leader is a
figure called Oannes.
We find that he is
depicted as a man.
But curiously, he
is wearing a sort
of fish garb or a fish costume.
Archaeologists often refer to
him as a fish-garbed figure.
And the other seven
sages are also
dressed in this fish costume.
So you see the legs of a
human being and the face
and features of
bearded human being.
But then he's wearing, on
his head, the head of a fish.
And the body of a fish
hangs down his back.
It's a very curious
idea, really.
And he and all of them
hold in their hands
a curious little bag, which I
tend to refer to as a man bag.
I see them as a kind of badge
of office, a recognizable symbol
where perhaps members
of a brotherhood
would be able to recognize
one another by their carrying
of this symbol.
It was curious that we see a
figure holding the same bag
that we see on the
Sumerian reliefs
and holding it in
exactly the same way.
And not only that,
but those same
bags turn up on top of pillar 43
in enclosure D at Gobekli Tepe,
where we know that they're
at least 11,600 years old.
The tradition is clearly
rooted before the flood.
Then comes the flood.
The cataclysm wipes
everything out.
But that brotherhood
persists through the flood.
And after the flood,
they are again
offering the gifts of
civilization to mankind.
>> Could Oannes and his
sages have reemerged after
the cataclysmic flood to teach
the knowledge of the universe?
In Sumerian cuneiforms,
Enki is sometimes depicted
as a bearded man
wearing a fish costume
and sometimes carrying a bag.
Interesting to note that in the
Egyptian depictions of gods,
they are not holding a bag
but an important symbol called
the ankh.
The ankh depicts
immortality and life.
It is also connected with
Isis and the planet Venus.
Could these carrying
devices be transmitting
the same kind of energy?
Anton Parks' research has
traced the reemergence of Enki
to Egypt and, as a
byproduct of his death,
the building of
the Great Pyramid.
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> In my view, the Great
Pyramid was built by Isis.
I believe it was created to
reincarnate Osiris into Horus.
It is quite complicated.
The Assyrian, the
so-called aquatic temple
dedicated to Osiris in
Abydos, Abdju in Egyptian,
means it is located
in the city which is,
according to Egyptian history,
the first city of Osiris.
Yet to be able to find
seashells on a temple located
in the middle of
the desert, you have
to go back thousands of
years, at least 10,000 years.
Why would he have made such a
temple with aquatic features?
Because Osiris,
who is also Enki--
they are the same person--
had amphibian genes.
Osiris, Enki, was
killed by his nemesis
Set, who is, in fact,
Enlil, during one
of their many battles.
It took place in Abydos,
which also corresponds
to the Sumerian Abzu, where
Osiris's aquatic temple can
be found.
The texts clearly state that
all of Osiris's servants
were slaughtered
during a battle,
as well as Osiris himself,
who was crucified on a tree.
This is how he died.
Isis is quite a character.
She can't really be found
in Mesopotamian literature,
although she could be
considered the goddess Ninti.
She is the woman who lives in
the great deeps underground.
I think that these
underground passageways
could correspond
to the ones we can
find under the Giza Plateau.
We know that the Giza Plateau
is full of underground passages.
I believe that the clan
of Osiris lived there.
As far as the resurrection of
Osiris into Horus is concerned,
Isis organizes it.
The texts are very
clear about that.
And we understand that she
used Osiris's genetic code
to create Horus.
She created the Great Pyramid in
order to accomplish this task.
The Great Pyramid allowed Isis
to find Osiris's soul again.
We don't really know how.
But she would have put Horus's
genetic code in the pyramid.
She would have been able to
create another body using
Osiris's genetic code, the
so-called Yuef in Egyptian,
body.
And thanks to the coding
of the Great Pyramid,
she reached Osiris's
soul so it could come
into the new body of Horus.
>> Although the dating of the
Great Pyramid has been argued
by different scientists,
there is evidence that below
the monument something existed
there that was much older.
>> When we look at the Great
Pyramid, the second pyramid,
third pyramid, there's no doubt
in my mind that they were being
reused, should we say,
partially reconstructed,
built upon during
Dynastic times,
just like the Sphinx itself was
being repaired during Dynastic
times.
But I'm also convinced
that at least the core
of those pyramids,
particularly the Great Pyramid
and the second pyramid, go
back to a much earlier period.
So for instance,
the Great Pyramid
is actually built on what I
would call a sacred mound.
And this is acknowledged
even by the Egyptologists.
Now, they say it all goes back
to the Fourth Dynasty, circa
2600, 2500 BC.
But my analysis is
that at least the core,
the original portions, for
instance the descending
passage, the
subterranean chamber,
go back to a much
earlier period.
Then it was built over.
And I think some of
that building over it
goes back to prior
to Dynastic times.
>> Could this be proof
of the Clan of Osiris
and their knowledge?
And could this
group have harnessed
the powers of the universe
to bring back a god?
Some experts point to
the fact that the Great
Pyramid itself has always been
connected with the afterlife.
>> What you'll find inside those
pyramids is acres, and acres,
and acres of texts, deeply
inscribed into the walls.
They belong to the same
vast body of literature
to which belongs the famous
ancient Egyptian Book
of the Dead.
And the ultimate moment in
your journey through the Duat
is your entry into the
Judgment Hall of Osiris,
the Hall of Ma'at,
and where you will
be asked to account for
everything that you've
done with your life.
So it seems to me, very
clear, that the Great Pyramid
is part of an attempt to create
a three-dimensional model
of the afterlife realm.
>> If the ancient text from
both Sumerian cuneiforms
and Egyptian books suggest
the Great Pyramid as a place
to resurrect the dead, could
there be another hidden
message?
>> There is an ancient code
to be found within the Great
Pyramid.
It's within the geometry
not just of the pyramid
itself but its relationship
to the other two main pyramids
of the Giza Plateau.
Having studied this
for a number of years,
it seems to be related
very much to do
with the idea of the
music of the spheres,
the idea that there is
some kind of connection
between the primal tones
of the universe itself
and their relationship to the
creation of form and structure
in the physical world, and that
to somehow attune and enhance
this connection, that
certain proportions have
to be constructed into
the design of the pyramid
and also the geometry
of the landscape itself.
And these seem to reflect
the musical intervals,
in particular those
which are known
as the perfect fourth,
which has a ratio of 4:3,
and those known as the perfect
fifth, as a ratio of 3 to 2,
one of which is an
inverse form of the other.
>> If the Great Pyramid
is indeed a construction
to harmonize creation, wherein
lies the code to such a great
power?
>> Many people don't
know this, but, in fact,
it's not a four-sided pyramid.
It has a slight
concavity on each side,
making it an
eight-sided pyramid.
Now, the minute you do this, you
not only complicate the design
tremendously, but it produces
another bizarre geometry.
So this geometry, when we
analyze it, produces numbers.
Numbers keep
popping out, numbers
that shouldn't be there,
things like universal constant.
That has been known for
over 100 years, the phi
constant, the golden ratio.
But we have now strange numbers,
like Euler's number, coming up
in the design.
>> Could this geometry
produce a message?
>> The Great Pyramid is situated
within a whisker of latitude
30.
It seems like the
latitude choice
was derived from
astronomy because there's
a lens effect of the
atmosphere of the Earth.
And when you take
that into account,
the tiny error shy of
latitude 30 goes away.
They were on astronomical
latitude 30, if you like,
seems like a very
deliberate choice
because it's not
a random latitude.
It's 1/3 of the way between
the equator and the North Pole.
This is just one of
the many ways, I feel,
in which the Great Pyramid
deliberately and purposefully
speaks to our planet.
The next way it does that is
that it is a line that if you
take upon yourself the
project of building a pyramid
and aligning it to true north,
south, east, and west, you
wouldn't make any error at all.
There is an error in
the Great Pyramid.
It's tiny.
It's 3/60 of a single
degree off true north.
This is almost eerie
precision because of the scale
of the monument is so huge.
This thing is 481 feet high.
It has a footprint of 13,
slightly more than 13 acres.
It weighs 6 million tons.
It consists of 2 and 1/2 million
individual blocks of stone.
You're taking that whole
gigantic mountain of stone,
and you are aligning
it within just 3/60
of a single degree
of true north.
We're not talking about
magnetic north, which varies.
We're talking about
astronomical north,
the true north of this planet.
It's a very remarkable
thing, and that's
the north of this planet.
Once again, the Great Pyramid
is speaking to the Earth.
>> Could the pyramid be
revealing something else about
our planet?
>> Then you find something
else as you go deeper.
Start measuring
the Great Pyramid.
Measure it very,
very, very precisely.
Measure its base perimeter.
And then measure its height.
And scale those numbers up.
What you find is that at
a scale of 1 to 43,200--
and I'll explain why that's
not a random scale in a moment.
On a scale of 1 to 43,200,
the dimensions of the pyramid
give you the dimensions
of this planet.
In other words, if you
measure the base perimeter
of the Great Pyramid, and
multiply it by 43,200,
you get the equatorial
circumference of the Earth.
And if you measure the
height of the Great Pyramid,
and multiply it by 43,200,
you get the polar radius
of the Earth.
So in all those centuries
and millennia, when
our ancestors went
through the Dark Ages,
and didn't even know that they
were living on a planet, let
alone the dimensions of the
planet, all they ever had to do
was go accurately measure
the Great Pyramid,
multiply those
numbers by 43,200,
and they have the
dimensions of our planet.
>> Could this be the evidence
to suggest that ancient places,
like the Great Pyramid, are
here to always show us our place
in the stars?
>> Egyptologists
are aware of this.
But they say it's a
total coincidence.
There's no significance
to it whatsoever
as far as Egyptologists
are concerned.
And if the scale were
something different,
if it were 1 to 57,000
or 1 to 42,000 even,
they could be right.
The reason they're not right is
that the scale is not random.
The scale is defined by a key
motion of the Earth itself.
Our Earth, as well as
spinning on its own axis,
has a wobble on its axis.
That's called precession,
rather the effect
that you get if you set
a spinning top spinning.
As it begins to slow
down, it begins to wobble.
And the top of the top begins
to transcribe a circle.
The Earth does that.
If you take the extended
north pole of the Earth,
and extend it out
into the heavens,
you'll find that today
in our time it's pointing
at a star we call Polaris.
That's our Pole Star.
But it hasn't always
pointed at Polaris.
And it won't always point
at Polaris in the future.
Sometimes it'll
point at empty space.
Sometimes it pointed and
will point at other stars.
There was a time when Thuban
in Draco was the Pole Star.
That's because of the
precessional wobble
on the Earth's axis.
The extended north
pole of the Earth
isn't always pointing
at the same place.
Over a cycle of 25,920
years, it's doing that.
That's why the
Pole Star changes.
At the same time,
on the horizon--
and we know that
ancient cultures
had a great interest in
particular moments of the year,
particularly the equinoxes,
when night and day are
of equal length.
It was an obsession
of ancient cultures.
What was the constellation that
lay in the place on the horizon
where the sun rose on
the spring equinox?
What was the constellation
that housed the sun?
This is familiar
language in astrology.
What's the constellation
that housed
the sun on the spring equinox?
In our epoch, it's the
constellation of Pisces.
We live in the Age of
Pisces, near the end of it
as a matter of fact.
It's not an accident that the
early Christians used the fish
as their symbol
because Christianity
began at very near the
beginning of the age of Pisces.
Each one of these zodiacal
ages lasts for 2,160 years.
And then the sun transits out
of-- on the equinox, transits
out of one constellation
and into another.
So we Indeed do live in the
dawning of the Age of Aquarius.
Because of the precessional
motion of the Earth,
because of this change, this
wobble on the Earth's axis,
the constellation that
houses the sun on the equinox
is shifting out of
Pisces and into Aquarius.
That shift will be complete
within the next 100 or 150
years.
What we have here
is a process that
operates at the rate of
1 degree every 72 years.
We allocate 30 degrees
to each of the 12
constellations of the zodiac.
Multiply 72 by 30,
and you get 2,160.
That's a zodiacal age.
Take the whole cycle of
the zodiac, the whole 12
constellations, each
with 2,160 years
housing the sun on
the spring equinox,
and you get what the ancients
called the Great Year
when everything cycles
back to the beginning.
And the whole process
starts again, do you follow?
That's 25,920 years.
The heartbeat is 1
degree every 72 years.
It is defined by a key
motion of our planet.
That number, 43,200,
is a multiple of 72.
It's directly related
to that number.
And it's not as
though we're confined
to Giza and the Great Pyramid.
Those numbers are found
all over the world.
They're found in
ancient mythology.
Osiris, after all, was killed
by Set and his 72 conspirators.
The number occurs in the
ancient Egyptian texts.
It occurs in the
number of syllables
in the Rigveda in India.
It occurs in Norse mythology.
It's found all around the world.
There's an intense focus
on this system of numbers.
So it can't be an accident
that the same system of numbers
crops up in the Great Pyramid,
and that not only does
the Great Pyramid give us
the dimensions of the Earth,
but that it does so on a scale
defined by the Earth itself.
That's an incredibly
clever piece of work
that we're looking at there.
>> Could the ancient builders
have given us a monument
to decode our human existence?
Interestingly enough,
the numbers Tesla
was obsessed with show up in the
equations of the Great Pyramid.
The numbers Graham has
concluded from his research
on the pyramid are 72, 43,200,
600, 30, 25,920, and 2,160.
And all of those numbers
either equal 3, 6, or 9.
>> Then let's give
you one more example.
Let's track east from Giza.
Let's go off to
Cambodia, to Angkor
in Cambodia, an
amazing sight, again,
very much devoted
to the investigation
of the mystery of death.
The very word
Angkor actually has
a meaning in the ancient
Egyptian language.
It means life to the Horus.
And lo and behold, it
turns out that Angkor,
with its pyramidal
monuments, Angkor
lies exactly 72 degrees
of longitude east of Giza.
I do not believe that that is
a accident or a coincidence.
I think there is a deep
and ancient connection.
And what we're
looking at in Angkor--
because that site
was continuously
used by many later cultures,
both Hindu and Buddhist--
what we're looking at in Angkor
is the latest incarnation
of a much more ancient site
which, just like Giza, goes
back into remote prehistory.
>> Could these precise
calculations be spread across
the globe and
communicating a code?
Is it possible this is what
Nikola Tesla tapped into?
Robert Bauval predicts this
is the language of the future.
>> Well, the way we read
the universe is through
mathematics, and
through its geometry,
and through its
mathematics and geometry.
We need to know.
Slowly, through
our evolution, we
begin to work out how triangles
work, circles, ellipses,
various shapes, and now,
work out the numbers, how
they produce numbers.
So having said
this, the language
that we, as human beings,
will be communicating,
sounds a bit--
it sounds a bit too
science fiction.
But I don't think we'll be
talking English or Chinese
in the next 2, 3 centuries.
Already, we're using a different
language, using computers.
I think we'll be talking
mathematics in the sense that
to get a pure idea out,
to get a pure thought out,
and to structure it so that
you understand exactly what
I'm talking about-- the shape,
the size, the dimension,
the weight, the speed--
I'll have to number it.
I'll have to put mathematics.
The Great Pyramid is
speaking that language.
It's transmitting that language.
It's a silent language, if you
like, that needs to be read.
We don't need Egyptologists.
We don't need experts
in hieroglyphs.
It doesn't have hieroglyphs.
We need mathematicians.
We need mathematicians
to read it.
And that's one of the goals is
to tempt them to get into this.
We've moved in a direction where
we rely on external knowledge.
We seem to think that
the answer is out there.
And we look for it.
Well, the answer
may be inside us.
I fully believe this.
And therefore, we need to
rechange how we see ourselves
and how we educate ourselves.
I think what's interesting
now is that the science is
beginning to sort of touch
the frontiers of what
you would call, in general
terms, spirituality.
We begin to realize that
the universe is mental.
It is a mental universe.
And we need to think in
different forms, not just
purely classical science.
>> If, indeed, the purpose
of the Great Pyramid was
to educate humans on our
place in time and space,
could it also be a device to
help change our consciousness?
>> I have, for a long while,
argued that the central concept
of, certainly, the
pyramids of Egypt--
and I think the case is
true all over the world--
was to do with
the transformation
of human consciousness.
Whatever else the Great Pyramid
is, the Great Pyramid of Giza
in Egypt, whatever
else it is, it
is, for sure, an instrument that
works upon human consciousness.
>> Could the Great Pyramid
be a monument that was built
to withstand all catastrophes so
that humanity could always have
the codes to the universe?
Standing near the pyramid
is another monument that
has baffled experts for ages.
>> In the 1990s, when I first
started studying the Sphinx,
what I determined is that
it must go back to a earlier
climatic period.
When I initially
calibrate these,
I knew that it had to be
at least 5,000 to 7,000 BC.
Since then I've
continued my studies,
and I'm convinced at this
point that we have to go back
to at least around 10,000 BC.
>> Up next, the code left
behind by the Sphinx.